README.md, before:

spotify-json
============

A C++11 JSON writer and parser library. It

* parses and serializes directly to and from statically typed C++ objects,
* requires very little boilerplate code,
* is fast and makes use of vectorization,
* supports UTF-8,
* comes with [a good suite of tests](test),
* is deployed and in active use on well over 100 million devices,
* and [has API documentation](doc/api.md).

spotify-json depends on [Google's double-conversion library](https://github.com/google/double-conversion),
which must be linked in to the code that uses spotify-json.

Example
------

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <string>

#include <spotify/json.hpp>

using namespace spotify::json;

struct Track {
  std::string uri;
  std::string uid;
  std::map<std::string, std::string> metadata;
};

namespace spotify {
namespace json {

// Specialize spotify::json::default_codec_t to specify default behavior when
// encoding and decoding objects of certain types.
template <>
struct default_codec_t<Track> {
  static object_t<Track> codec() {
    auto codec = object<Track>();
    codec.required("uri", &Track::uri);
    codec.optional("uid", &Track::uid);
    codec.optional("metadata", &Track::metadata);
    return codec;
  }
};

}  // namespace json
}  // namespace spotify

int main() {
  const auto parsed_track = decode<Track>(
      R"({ "uri": "spotify:track:xyz", "metadata": { "a": "b" } })");
  std::cout << "Parsed track with uri " << parsed_track.uri << std::endl;

  Track track;
  track.uri = "spotify:track:abc";
  track.uid = "an-uid";
  const auto json = encode(track);
  std::cout << "Encoded the track into " << json << std::endl;

  return 0;
}
```

Usage
-----

spotify-json offers [a range of codec types](doc/api.md#the-codec) that can serialize
and parse specific JSON values. There are codecs for each of the basic data
types that JSON offers: [strings](doc/api.md#string_t),
[numbers](doc/api.md#number_t), [arrays](doc/api.md#array_t),
[booleans](doc/api.md#boolean_t), [objects](doc/api.md#object_t) and
[null](doc/api.md#null_t).


### Constructing and composing codecs

A codec for integers can be made using
[`codec::number<int>()`](doc/api.md#number_t). The codec for strings can be
instantiated with [`codec::string()`](doc/api.md#string_t).

Codecs are composable. It is for example possible to construct a codec for
parsing and serialization of JSON arrays of numbers, such as `[1,4,2]`:
[`codec::array<std::vector<int>>(codec::number<int>())`](doc/api.md#array_t).

Constructing deeply nested codecs manually as above can become tedious. To ease
this pain, [`default_codec`](doc/api.md#default_codec_t) is a helper function
that makes it easy to construct codecs for built-in types. For example,
`default_codec<int>()` is a codec that can parse and serialize numbers, and
`default_codec<std::vector<int>>()` is one that works on arrays of numbers.

It is possible to work with JSON objects with arbitrary keys. For example,
`default_codec<std::map<std::string, bool>>()` is a codec for JSON objects
with strings as keys and booleans as values.


### Parsing and serialization

Parsing is done using the [`decode`](doc/api.md#decode)
function:

```cpp
try {
  decode(codec::number<int>(), "123") == 123;
  decode<int>("123") == 123;  // Shortcut for decode(default_codec<int>(), "123")
  decode<std::vector<int>>("[1,2,3]") == std::vector{ 1, 2, 3 };
} catch (const decode_exception &e) {
  std::cout << "Failed to decode: " << e.what() << std::endl;
}
```

[`decode`](doc/api.md#decode) throws
[`decode_exception`](doc/api.md#decode_exception) when parsing fails. There is
also a function [`try_decode`](doc/api.md#try_decode) that doesn't throw on
parse errors:

```cpp
int result = 0;
if (try_decode(result, "123")) {
  result == 123;
} else {
  // Decoding failed!
}
```

Similarly, serialization is done using [`encode`](doc/api.md#encode):

```cpp
encode(codec::number<int>(), 123) == "123";
encode(123) == "123";  // Shortcut for encode(default_codec<int>(), 123)
encode(std::vector<int>{ 1, 2, 3 }) == "[1,2,3]";
```

### Working with rich objects

Working with basic types such as numbers, strings, booleans and arrays is all
nice and dandy, but most practical applications need to deal with rich JSON
schemas that involve objects.

Many JSON libraries work by parsing JSON strings into a tree structure that can
be read by the application. In our experience, this approach often leads to
large amounts of boilerplate code to extract the information in this tree object
into statically typed counterparts that are practical to use in C++. This
boilerplate is painful to write, bug-prone and slow due to unnecessary copying.
SAX-style event based libraries such as [yajl](http://lloyd.github.io/yajl/)
avoid the slowdown but require even more boilerplate.

spotify-json avoids these issues by parsing the JSON directly into statically
typed data structures. To explain how, let's use the example of a basic
two-dimensional coordinate, represented in JSON as `{"x":1,"y":2}`. In C++, such
a coordinate may be represented as a struct:

```cpp
struct Coordinate {
  Coordinate() = default;
  Coordinate(int x, int y) : x(x), y(y) {}

  int x = 0;
  int y = 0;
};
```

With spotify-json, it is possible to construct a codec that can convert
`Coordinate` directly to and from JSON:

```cpp
auto coordinate_codec = object<Coordinate>();
coordinate_codec.required("x", &Coordinate::x);
coordinate_codec.required("y", &Coordinate::y);
```

The use of `required` will cause parsing to fail if the fields are missing.
There is also an `optional` method. For more information, see
[`object_t`'s API documentation](https://ghe.spotify.net/spotify-sdk/spotify-json/blob/master/doc/api.md#object_t).

This codec can be used with `encode` and `decode`:

```cpp
encode(coordinate_codec, Coordinate(10, 0)) == R"({"x":10,"y":0})";

const Coordinate coord = decode(coordinate_codec, R"({ "x": 12, "y": 13 })");
coord.x == 12;
coord.y == 13;
```

Objects can be nested. To demonstrate this, let's introduce another data type:

```cpp
struct Player {
  std::string name;
  std::string instrument;
  Coordinate position;
};
```

A codec for `Player` might be created with

```cpp
auto player_codec = object<Player>();
player_codec.required("name", &Player::name);
player_codec.required("instrument", &Player::instrument);
// Because there is no default_codec for Coordinate, we need to pass in the
// codec explicitly:
player_codec.required("position", &Player::position, coordinate_codec);

// Let's use it:
Player player;
player.name = "Daniel";
player.instrument = "guitar";
encode(player_codec, player) ==
    R"({"name":"Daniel","instrument":"guitar","position":{"x":0,"y":0}})";
```

Since codecs are just normal objects, it is possible to create and use
several different codecs for any given data type. This makes it possibile to
parameterize parsing and do other fancy things, but for most data types there
will only really exist one codec. For these cases, it is possible to extend
the `default_codec` helper to support your own data types.

```cpp
namespace spotify {
namespace json {

template <>
struct default_codec_t<Coordinate> {
  static object_t<Coordinate> codec() {
    auto codec = object<Coordinate>();
    codec.required("x", &Coordinate::x);
    codec.required("y", &Coordinate::y);
    return codec;
  }
};

template <>
struct default_codec_t<Player> {
  static object_t<Player> codec() {
    auto codec = object<Player>();
    codec.required("name", &Player::name);
    codec.required("instrument", &Player::instrument);
    codec.required("position", &Player::position);
    return codec;
  }
};

}  // namespace json
}  // namespace spotify
```

`Coordinate` and `Player` can now be used like any other type that spotify-json
supports out of the box:

```cpp
encode(Coordinate(10, 0)) == R"({"x":10,"y":0})";

decode<std::vector<Coordinate>>(R"([{ "x": 1, "y": -1 }])") == std::vector<Coordinate>{ Coordinate(1, -1) };

Player player;
player.name = "Martin";
player.instrument = "drums";
encode(player) ==
    R"({"name":"Martin","instrument":"drums","position":{"x":0,"y":0}})";
```


### Advanced usage

The examples above cover the most commonly used parts of spotify-json. The
library supports more things that sometimes come in handy:

* Most STL containers, including
  [`array`, `vector`, `deque`, `list`, `set`, `unordered_set`](doc/api.md#array_t),
  [`pair`, `tuple`](doc/api.md#tuple_t),
  [`map` and `unordered_map`](doc/api.md#map_t)
* [C++ `enum`s and similar types](doc/api.md#enumeration_t)
* [Arbitrary conversion logic](doc/api.md#transform_t), for example when a
  raw binary hash in C++ is represented as a hex coded string in JSON
* [Dealing with versioning](doc/api.md#eq_t)
* [Ignoring values that are of the wrong type instead of failing the parse](doc/api.md#handling-missing-empty-null-and-invalid-values)
* Values wrapped in [`unique_ptr`s](doc/api.md#unique_ptr_t) and
  [`shared_ptr`s](doc/api.md#shared_ptr_t)
* [`boost::optional`](doc/api.md#optional)
* [`boost::chrono` and `std::chrono` types](doc/api.md#chrono)
* [Dealing with virtual classes / type erasure](doc/api.md#cast_t)
* [Floating point numbers with lossless serialize/parse roundtrip](doc/api.md#number_t)


[Detailed API documentation](doc/api.md)
------------------------------------------

Building and running tests
--------------------------
### Requirements
  * CMake ([http://www.cmake.org](http://www.cmake.org/))
  * Boost ([http://www.boost.org](http://www.boost.org/))

### 1. Make CMake find Boost
    export BOOST_ROOT=/path/to/boost
    export BOOST_LIBRARYDIR=/path/to/boost/lib/

### 2. Run CMake
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -G <generator-name> ..

Run "cmake --help" for a list of generators available on your system.

### 3. Build project with Visual Studio / Xcode / Ninja

### 4. Run CTest
    cd build
    ctest -j 8

### Experimental - Building with Bazel

#### Requirements:
  * Bazel ([http://bazel.io](http://bazel.io/))

#### 1. Build project using Bazel
    bazel build :spotify-json

#### 2. Build & run tests using Bazel
    bazel test :test
    bazel test :benchmark

#### Notes:
  * If using spotify-json as a module in a larger project, in the 
  project's WORKSPACE file you can call 
  `load("//path/to/json/workspace.bzl", "spotify_json_library")` 
  and configure the library for use in the project, e.g.
    `spotify_json_library(prefix = "vendor/spotify-json", has_boost=True)`

Code of conduct
---------------
This project adheres to the [Open Code of Conduct][code-of-conduct]. By participating, you are expected to honor this code.

[code-of-conduct]: https://github.com/spotify/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md

Commit message:

Add info in README.md on how to link against the library

README.md, after:

spotify-json
============

A C++11 JSON writer and parser library. It

* parses and serializes directly to and from statically typed C++ objects,
* requires very little boilerplate code,
* is fast and makes use of vectorization,
* supports UTF-8,
* comes with [a good suite of tests](test),
* is deployed and in active use on well over 100 million devices,
* and [has API documentation](doc/api.md).

spotify-json depends on [Google's double-conversion library](https://github.com/google/double-conversion),
which must be linked in to the code that uses spotify-json.

Example
------

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <string>

#include <spotify/json.hpp>

using namespace spotify::json;

struct Track {
  std::string uri;
  std::string uid;
  std::map<std::string, std::string> metadata;
};

namespace spotify {
namespace json {

// Specialize spotify::json::default_codec_t to specify default behavior when
// encoding and decoding objects of certain types.
template <>
struct default_codec_t<Track> {
  static object_t<Track> codec() {
    auto codec = object<Track>();
    codec.required("uri", &Track::uri);
    codec.optional("uid", &Track::uid);
    codec.optional("metadata", &Track::metadata);
    return codec;
  }
};

}  // namespace json
}  // namespace spotify

int main() {
  const auto parsed_track = decode<Track>(
      R"({ "uri": "spotify:track:xyz", "metadata": { "a": "b" } })");
  std::cout << "Parsed track with uri " << parsed_track.uri << std::endl;

  Track track;
  track.uri = "spotify:track:abc";
  track.uid = "an-uid";
  const auto json = encode(track);
  std::cout << "Encoded the track into " << json << std::endl;

  return 0;
}
```

Usage
-----

spotify-json offers [a range of codec types](doc/api.md#the-codec) that can serialize
and parse specific JSON values. There are codecs for each of the basic data
types that JSON offers: [strings](doc/api.md#string_t),
[numbers](doc/api.md#number_t), [arrays](doc/api.md#array_t),
[booleans](doc/api.md#boolean_t), [objects](doc/api.md#object_t) and
[null](doc/api.md#null_t).


### Constructing and composing codecs

A codec for integers can be made using
[`codec::number<int>()`](doc/api.md#number_t). The codec for strings can be
instantiated with [`codec::string()`](doc/api.md#string_t).

Codecs are composable. It is for example possible to construct a codec for
parsing and serialization of JSON arrays of numbers, such as `[1,4,2]`:
[`codec::array<std::vector<int>>(codec::number<int>())`](doc/api.md#array_t).

Constructing deeply nested codecs manually as above can become tedious. To ease
this pain, [`default_codec`](doc/api.md#default_codec_t) is a helper function
that makes it easy to construct codecs for built-in types. For example,
`default_codec<int>()` is a codec that can parse and serialize numbers, and
`default_codec<std::vector<int>>()` is one that works on arrays of numbers.

It is possible to work with JSON objects with arbitrary keys. For example,
`default_codec<std::map<std::string, bool>>()` is a codec for JSON objects
with strings as keys and booleans as values.


### Parsing and serialization

Parsing is done using the [`decode`](doc/api.md#decode)
function:

```cpp
try {
  decode(codec::number<int>(), "123") == 123;
  decode<int>("123") == 123;  // Shortcut for decode(default_codec<int>(), "123")
  decode<std::vector<int>>("[1,2,3]") == std::vector{ 1, 2, 3 };
} catch (const decode_exception &e) {
  std::cout << "Failed to decode: " << e.what() << std::endl;
}
```

[`decode`](doc/api.md#decode) throws
[`decode_exception`](doc/api.md#decode_exception) when parsing fails. There is
also a function [`try_decode`](doc/api.md#try_decode) that doesn't throw on
parse errors:

```cpp
int result = 0;
if (try_decode(result, "123")) {
  result == 123;
} else {
  // Decoding failed!
}
```

Similarly, serialization is done using [`encode`](doc/api.md#encode):

```cpp
encode(codec::number<int>(), 123) == "123";
encode(123) == "123";  // Shortcut for encode(default_codec<int>(), 123)
encode(std::vector<int>{ 1, 2, 3 }) == "[1,2,3]";
```

### Working with rich objects

Working with basic types such as numbers, strings, booleans and arrays is all
nice and dandy, but most practical applications need to deal with rich JSON
schemas that involve objects.

Many JSON libraries work by parsing JSON strings into a tree structure that can
be read by the application. In our experience, this approach often leads to
large amounts of boilerplate code to extract the information in this tree object
into statically typed counterparts that are practical to use in C++. This
boilerplate is painful to write, bug-prone and slow due to unnecessary copying.
SAX-style event based libraries such as [yajl](http://lloyd.github.io/yajl/)
avoid the slowdown but require even more boilerplate.

spotify-json avoids these issues by parsing the JSON directly into statically
typed data structures. To explain how, let's use the example of a basic
two-dimensional coordinate, represented in JSON as `{"x":1,"y":2}`. In C++, such
a coordinate may be represented as a struct:

```cpp
struct Coordinate {
  Coordinate() = default;
  Coordinate(int x, int y) : x(x), y(y) {}

  int x = 0;
  int y = 0;
};
```

With spotify-json, it is possible to construct a codec that can convert
`Coordinate` directly to and from JSON:

```cpp
auto coordinate_codec = object<Coordinate>();
coordinate_codec.required("x", &Coordinate::x);
coordinate_codec.required("y", &Coordinate::y);
```

The use of `required` will cause parsing to fail if the fields are missing.
There is also an `optional` method. For more information, see
[`object_t`'s API documentation](https://ghe.spotify.net/spotify-sdk/spotify-json/blob/master/doc/api.md#object_t).

This codec can be used with `encode` and `decode`:

```cpp
encode(coordinate_codec, Coordinate(10, 0)) == R"({"x":10,"y":0})";

const Coordinate coord = decode(coordinate_codec, R"({ "x": 12, "y": 13 })");
coord.x == 12;
coord.y == 13;
```

Objects can be nested. To demonstrate this, let's introduce another data type:

```cpp
struct Player {
  std::string name;
  std::string instrument;
  Coordinate position;
};
```

A codec for `Player` might be created with

```cpp
auto player_codec = object<Player>();
player_codec.required("name", &Player::name);
player_codec.required("instrument", &Player::instrument);
// Because there is no default_codec for Coordinate, we need to pass in the
// codec explicitly:
player_codec.required("position", &Player::position, coordinate_codec);

// Let's use it:
Player player;
player.name = "Daniel";
player.instrument = "guitar";
encode(player_codec, player) ==
    R"({"name":"Daniel","instrument":"guitar","position":{"x":0,"y":0}})";
```

Since codecs are just normal objects, it is possible to create and use
several different codecs for any given data type. This makes it possibile to
parameterize parsing and do other fancy things, but for most data types there
will only really exist one codec. For these cases, it is possible to extend
the `default_codec` helper to support your own data types.

```cpp
namespace spotify {
namespace json {

template <>
struct default_codec_t<Coordinate> {
  static object_t<Coordinate> codec() {
    auto codec = object<Coordinate>();
    codec.required("x", &Coordinate::x);
    codec.required("y", &Coordinate::y);
    return codec;
  }
};

template <>
struct default_codec_t<Player> {
  static object_t<Player> codec() {
    auto codec = object<Player>();
    codec.required("name", &Player::name);
    codec.required("instrument", &Player::instrument);
    codec.required("position", &Player::position);
    return codec;
  }
};

}  // namespace json
}  // namespace spotify
```

`Coordinate` and `Player` can now be used like any other type that spotify-json
supports out of the box:

```cpp
encode(Coordinate(10, 0)) == R"({"x":10,"y":0})";

decode<std::vector<Coordinate>>(R"([{ "x": 1, "y": -1 }])") == std::vector<Coordinate>{ Coordinate(1, -1) };

Player player;
player.name = "Martin";
player.instrument = "drums";
encode(player) ==
    R"({"name":"Martin","instrument":"drums","position":{"x":0,"y":0}})";
```


### Advanced usage

The examples above cover the most commonly used parts of spotify-json. The
library supports more things that sometimes come in handy:

* Most STL containers, including
  [`array`, `vector`, `deque`, `list`, `set`, `unordered_set`](doc/api.md#array_t),
  [`pair`, `tuple`](doc/api.md#tuple_t),
  [`map` and `unordered_map`](doc/api.md#map_t)
* [C++ `enum`s and similar types](doc/api.md#enumeration_t)
* [Arbitrary conversion logic](doc/api.md#transform_t), for example when a
  raw binary hash in C++ is represented as a hex coded string in JSON
* [Dealing with versioning](doc/api.md#eq_t)
* [Ignoring values that are of the wrong type instead of failing the parse](doc/api.md#handling-missing-empty-null-and-invalid-values)
* Values wrapped in [`unique_ptr`s](doc/api.md#unique_ptr_t) and
  [`shared_ptr`s](doc/api.md#shared_ptr_t)
* [`boost::optional`](doc/api.md#optional)
* [`boost::chrono` and `std::chrono` types](doc/api.md#chrono)
* [Dealing with virtual classes / type erasure](doc/api.md#cast_t)
* [Floating point numbers with lossless serialize/parse roundtrip](doc/api.md#number_t)


[Detailed API documentation](doc/api.md)
------------------------------------------


Linking against the library in a project
----------------------------------------

If your project is built with CMake, it is easy to use spotify-json. Here is an
example of how it can be done:

1. Add spotify-json as a git submodule under `vendor/`
2. Add the following lines to the `CMakeLists.txt` of your project:

```
add_subdirectory(vendor/spotify-json)
target_link_libraries([YOUR TARGET] spotify-json)
```


Building and running tests
--------------------------
### Requirements
  * CMake ([http://www.cmake.org](http://www.cmake.org/))
  * Boost ([http://www.boost.org](http://www.boost.org/))

### 1. Make CMake find Boost
    export BOOST_ROOT=/path/to/boost
    export BOOST_LIBRARYDIR=/path/to/boost/lib/

### 2. Run CMake
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -G <generator-name> ..

Run "cmake --help" for a list of generators available on your system.

### 3. Build project with Visual Studio / Xcode / Ninja

### 4. Run CTest
    cd build
    ctest -j 8

### Experimental - Building with Bazel

#### Requirements:
  * Bazel ([http://bazel.io](http://bazel.io/))

#### 1. Build project using Bazel
    bazel build :spotify-json

#### 2. Build & run tests using Bazel
    bazel test :test
    bazel test :benchmark

#### Notes:
  * If using spotify-json as a module in a larger project, in the 
  project's WORKSPACE file you can call 
  `load("//path/to/json/workspace.bzl", "spotify_json_library")` 
  and configure the library for use in the project, e.g.
    `spotify_json_library(prefix = "vendor/spotify-json", has_boost=True)`

Code of conduct
---------------
This project adheres to the [Open Code of Conduct][code-of-conduct]. By participating, you are expected to honor this code.

[code-of-conduct]: https://github.com/spotify/code-of-conduct/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md
